The process of face emotion recognition envolves the following steps-
1)Data collection- Collect labelled dataset of facial images that represent different emotions.
2)Preprocessing: standardize their size 
		     convert them to grayscale  
		     normalize -Standard scale or range[0-1pix]

3)Model training-Train a deep learning model using labelled
		     dataset
4)Evaluate- To determine accuracy and performance using 		test dataset
5)Real-Time Implementation- Implementation of model in 				   live video-streams or webcam


Applications-
1)Healthcare-Monitoring emotional disorders like Depression
2)Human Computer Interaction 
3)Advertisment- Analyze consumers emotional response to advertisements
4)Audience Analysis-In events, conferences, or performances, to analyze the emotional responses of the audience.
5)Security and Surveillance
6)Education and Training:To access students emotional engagement and interests. 


Deep Learning-
Inspired from the structure and function of human brain.
It is a subfield on ML and AI that focusses of training neural networks to perform complex tasks by learning from vasts amount of data. 
Deep learning models-CNN(Convolutional Neural Network)
			   RNN(Recurrent Neural Network)


CNN-A deep learning Model well-suited for image based                tasks such as recognizing patterns and features.
Uses-Image Recognition
     
     Face Emotion Recognition
     
RNN- used where order matters such as speech recognition and language translation


Keras-Open-Source high-level deep learning API written in python. 
User friendly and easy to use  
Allows researchers and developers to build, experiment with, and deploy deep learning models quickly and efficiently. 
Provides a simple interface to create complex neural network architectures with minimal code.


In the code-
Model Definition-
	Keras is used to define the architecture of CNN 	model.
	Sequential Class- is used to create linear stack of 	layers.Then various layers are added to the model 	such as Conv2D, MaxPooling2D, Dropout, and Dense to 	construct the neural network.
Model Compilation-
	loss function
	optimiser
	evalutaion metric
Model Training-
	fit function is called with training data x_train 	and y_train
Model Evaluation-
	evaluate function is called with test data x_test  	and y_test to calculate the models accuracy. 

Layers-
	The layers refer to the different building blocks  	that make up the neural network architecture. Each 	layer serves a specific purpose and plays a role in 	extracting features from the input data.

Loss Function: 
	The loss function measures how well the model's 	predictions match the actual ground-truth labels 	during training. (categorical_crossentropy).
	USED DURING TRAINING PHASE.
	SHOULD BE MINIMUM.
Optimizer : 
	It is responsible for updating the model's 	parameters during training to minimize the loss 	function. (adam) 
Evaluation metric:
	It is used to measure the model's performance on 
	the test set after training. (accuracy)
	USED DURING TESTING PHASE. 
	PERCEBNT SHOULD BE MAXIMUM.



OPEN CV-
	Open-source computer vision and machine learning library.
	Provides tools and functions 
	Uses-
		Image and video processing
		obj detection
		face recognition
	Use in code-
		Accessing the webcam
		Converting color spaces
		Face detection
		Drawing rectangles


Haar Cascade- 
	-Machine learning obj detection algo
	-uses a set of simple features called haar-like 	features, to create classifiers
	-computes difference in intesities bw two regions 	in img
	-Open cv provides implementation of haar cascade


NUMPY-
	Python library used for numerical computing
	provides support for large arrays and matrices
	provides functions to operate on these arrays
	Use in code-
		store pixel data of img in arrays
		Normalization-pixel val b/w [0-1]
		Reshaping the img data to match the i/p size
		req by cnn model


Pandas-
	Used to manage and organize the image file path and 	corresponding labels
	Use in code
		During preprocessing phase used to create two
		data frames 
		1 for training
		1 for testing
		Each frame consists of two columns:
		'Image'  and 'label'
		
		Label Encoding- In combination with scikits 		learn label encoder to convert labels to 			numerical values for training the model.

Scikit learn-
	Open-source machine learning library
	Provides tools for classification,clustering and 	dimension reduction and more
	USES in code
		Label encoding


Tensor Flow-
	TensorFlow is an essential library in the field of 	machine learning and deep learning, and it is often 	used for training and deploying machine learning 	models, especially neural networks.

Model: Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)
Training Dataset Size: 28,821 images (across seven emotion categories)
Testing Dataset Size: 7,066 images (across seven emotion categories)
Image Size: 48x48 pixels (grayscale)
Epochs: 100
Batch Size: 128
Training Accuracy: [Your training accuracy value]
Testing Accuracy: [Your testing accuracy value]
	
	
	






			 